thank you it is so great to be here
today at saster seeing all of you irl 3d
all the things
um
i'm really excited to talk to you today
i'm going to walk through seven lessons
harder and lessons that i've learned
in what i call product led scaling it's
kind of what happens after product led
growth
and i'll talk to you a little bit about
my experience at talk desk a little bit
my experience at live ramp and now at
dropbox
but first i want to tell you a quick
story
so that's me
and this is what i call my pandemic
hobby uh i really enjoy stand up paddle
boarding
and i'm standing paddle boarding in what
is called
the
csun slough try saying that like three
times fast it's impossible
and what is unique about the csun slough
is that it is a fresh water body
but
i'll just kind of place it for you
it is sitting kind of near benecia so
for those of you who aren't bay area
natives the bay area is surrounded by
water this is something i learned over
time from chicago and
the csun slough meets the grizzly bay
which is a saltwater body which means
the carquinos strait which meets san
paulo bay and eventually
the san francisco bay those are all salt
water bodies and what's unique about the
water in the csun slough
is this what's called brackish water now
that sounds really gross but really all
it is is a unique ecological phenomena
where salt water and fresh water meet
and virtually nothing actually survives
in there but as i was like paddling
around and kind of looking around i
noticed
these little turtles swimming around
and those turtles got there because some
parent was like at a fairground and some
kid won a turtle
and
you know the parent wasn't so happy they
dropped that turtle into the stream
and the turtles you know this is how
turtles have survived for the last 20
million years
but what is unique about the csun slough
is that
there are climate scientists at the
university of california at davis who
believe that turtles hold the key to
potentially understanding global warming
these turtles have managed to thrive in
an environment that literally nothing
else is able to live in
and that's a little bit like
product led scaling
what's unique about product lead scaling
is
you're dealing with you know most
companies
like what i call the product like
grown-ups
how many of you actually work for one of
these products like grown-ups
raise your hand
okay we've got like a few of you in the
audience
so what's unique about product like
grown-ups is that they have managed to
take
a product-led motion
and marry it with some kind of sales
assist or sales-led motion
now what i think is interesting about
this you know working at one of the
product like grown-ups is it seems so
straightforward you know i work for the
original product led growth company
dropbox
and being on the inside you start to
realize you know you actually kind of
need both motions you need to find a way
that both motions work together
so that's what we're going to talk about
today
how to actually navigate your way
through the product led maze
now
i have worked at a wide variety of
different types of companies at
different stages
i worked at talk desk which is one of
jason's favorite investments it's one of
the latest decacorns i worked there when
we were going from a million dollars an
error to around 50 million dollars
narrow i ran product
then i went to live ramp i ran product
live ramp for those of you who don't
know live ramp it is in the
paid media marketing space it's a public
company
and
we
help marketers uh take their crm and
then
go and target uh on
the
sorry on uh paid medium and then of
course you all know dropbox i joined
dropbox about a year ago
and um we're kind of in that we're still
in that maze
and so first
the first lesson that i'd like to share
is what i call improving your customers
customer's csat
so what does that mean
well
i like to kind of start this with a
story so i joined talk desk
and about a month in i was about to fly
to portugal
and portugal is where most of the
development team was at the time
and what
i you know is about to get on the plane
and tiago our ceo calls me and says
you're not going to portugal right now
you're going to atlanta and you're we
had an outage last night for two minutes
and you're gonna go and talk to our
largest customer which was the weather
channel at the time so i get in the
plane and i fly to atlanta
and
i get there and the weather channel how
many of you have ever like watched the
weather channel okay everyone probably
everyone um
that's actually not what the weather
channel is for the most part that's not
where they make most of their money they
make most of their money powering the
weather app on your iphone they power
also like what are kind of like
bloomberg terminals inside of airplanes
and when talk dusk went out for two
minutes pilots were actually trying to
call down
to
the weather channel
into the what i would only describe as
like i've never been on the floor of
nasa but it's almost like a nasa control
center
and
when talked us went out the pilots
weren't able to say oh should i fly
through this fog or fly around it
and so we really you know that was kind
of like the first lesson that hit me
where i was like oh my god
we're actually not building for
our customer we're building for their
customer
who is paying them
and we are one of these mission critical
systems and so
we really made it our mission in those
early days to make it super easy for
agents to
self-serve on board themselves
we made it easy you know we called it i
think this is like the dirty little
secret of all sass it's on the front
page of every single web page
it's the hero so ours at the time was
called create a call center in five
minutes guess what no one was creating a
call center in five minutes but it made
it seem easy it made it seem accessible
so that anyone could do it themselves
and
so at that time we also did something
really unique
we started doing it it doesn't sound
crazy right now but at the time we
started doing sms csat and making it
super easy to collect data that way we
also
allowed and this is kind of one of the
unique things i'll give credit to our
designer i think this is like a design
hackathon
we actually gave the agents the ability
to
say this is how happy my customer was at
the end of the call
so we very intentionally started laying
the groundwork for
being really a data asset
and
so
lesson number one improve your customers
customers cset
so
here we are talkdos has survived going
from a million to 10 million dollars
which as many of you out there know it's
not easy
and now we're at the point where like
okay let's put our foot in the gas how
do we actually like 10x this thing
and as we looked around at what options
we had we had something like 20
different integrations that were
actually driving revenue
and
really all that matter was one of those
integrations
and it was salesforce and the reason why
it mattered
is
something
every single time our customers kind of
hit a certain level in their own growth
they graduated off of whatever ticketing
system they were using onto salesforce
and we saw this pattern happen over and
over and over again
and
why why was that interesting because
salesforce is notorious it's hard to
actually like navigate your way through
that ecosystem
what we did that was different well
first we got to know the product team at
salesforce really well we would like go
out to beers with them on a regular
basis
but what we learned was we kind of
treated them almost as our customer
and we started to learn about the
customer journey across companies
we really started to focus on
how do we like actually land with a
product led partnership
so we built
the first kind of
onboarding flow directly through
salesforce so that the sales engineers
at salesforce
could create a call center in five
minutes on salesforce this is the first
time that happens and so
really starting to think about okay
what part which customer are you solving
this for and how do you actually create
a product-led partnership not just
a product-led product
and so we really kind of crafted this
motion and then also started to expand
into outbound sales so we went from you
know these are the use cases on the the
bottom we went from call center in five
minutes now you can actually like add
outbound sales and oh by the way now
we're actually starting to land
mid-market accounts on a more regular
basis
land with part product led partnerships
next
now we're at the point where
things are going crazy like we're adding
more and more customers we're also
losing customers and we don't always
know exactly why we're losing customers
but
we see customers graduating off of us on
to the 5.9 the genesis of the world
and we realize we actually we can't
build fast enough
so you know our kind of white lie at the
time was intelligent contact center we
had one ai engineer at the company
but
we really wanted to be this ai powered
call center so how do you do that you
actually launch
a platform yourself
and so what we did
was we built a product led platform
ourselves we kind of
we were looking at like heroku and
salesforce for inspiration
highly recommend going through the
heroku flows to see
how they
allow you to add licenses
um we require that every single partner
that wanted to be in the talk desk
ecosystem set up a trial themselves
so this was like kind of unheard of in
this industry where you know these sales
cycles took three to six to nine months
and we were saying no actually
any admin or any supervisor can go and
add a trial themselves
we also launched a wall-to-wall workflow
added a desk phone at this point so that
we can start to creep our way into
enterprise
and ultimately we identified a target
where we ended up acquiring one of the
the analytics platforms
so you can kind of start to see there's
a lot of different ways that product led
motions
can get layered into a sales led motion
so let's switch gears a little bit i'm
going to tell you a little bit about my
time at live ramp
so
i helped live ramp
shift from you know about 100 million
dollars and grow into about a 400
million dollar business
and
what was unique about live ramp is we
were really truly sales-led we're really
focused on mid-market
and
we're also kind of in a pickle
live ramp
is for those of you don't know as i
mentioned you take your crm
live you run it through live ramp and
then we basically maintained a cookie
graph
so that you could go and target
you know anywhere on the web
but what we had learned is that google
was getting rid of cookies
so we were like
oh something i can't stay on stage
and
what we did next was kind of look around
our business and say okay what is
resistant to
cookies and what we realized is that our
tv business
was really focused on
you know it was growing like crazy
and we saw this little partner called
data plus math that was kind of like
trying to get you know they were getting
more customers than we were in the tv
space which is crazy
and what they had done was kind of build
their own data asset they were able to
in a matter of days get somebody up and
running doing television measurement
this is like unheard of at the time
and so
i think this is the fastest acquisition
i've ever been part of we acquired them
in i think three weeks
and
all of a sudden we had a product led
motion that was like driving a bunch of
our sales live motions at
live ramp
so really think about and kind of look
at your business when your back is
against the against the wall think about
well is there somebody i could go and
acquire
that would actually give me that
product-led motion
so
again understand your customers do
something about it we weren't quite
ready to do something about it but
by making this acquisition we were going
down that path
so
here i am i'm you know maybe i'd been
there for six eight months
and i went and met one of our customers
and
uh i was i was in a
boutique retailer in uh
in minnesota
um
and
this retailer
you know
really wanted to have us meet with our
data science team and i was like well
we've got all these out-of-the-box
solutions and you guys are already
buying this from us
so
why would we go and meet with them
they're like no no trust us so we sit
down with our data science team
and the data science team says that's
great you took like a load off of us by
giving us access
to these insights but we just kind of
want the data
we're like i don't know like this is
licensed in a particular way
and
what we realized was there's a huge
opportunity in the analytics space that
was being unmet
and we were able to go and build a
product-led motion for the data
scientists we were able to create a
closed-loop environment where we put the
data in data scientists were able to use
the tools they were already used to
like gcp and bigquery
and we created something that we called
the safe haven where your data goes in
but your data never comes out
we were able to use our own ip
to
create this new environment
but then we what was unique about and
why i call it a product live motion is
data scientists were
creating analytics and publishing them
to the marketers publishing them to the
sales team publishing them all across
the organization
so
really think about if you're working for
a sales like company what are ways that
i can actually use product-led
techniques to expand within the
organization i've already landed
all right so here we are to where i am
today
how many of you in the audience have a
dropbox account
all right so this is probably like one
of the first companies that i'm talking
about that you've heard of
awesome um
so dropbox as i mentioned one of the
first true product like growth companies
uh
i remember 2010 i like sent an email to
about 50 people saying hey you want two
gigs of space that was like a lot back
then um
and i think i like collected maybe like
15 gigs for myself off of that growth
hack
so one of the you know kind of like
original value props for dropbox was
really around storage
but when i joined dropbox you know a
year ago
storage is commoditized
storage is kind of like we have to have
it but that's not the reason why people
use us
and
so i i was really trying to wrap my head
around this as i joined dropbox
i went and i sat down with like 30
customers being like well why do you use
dropbox if you also pay for google or
you also pay for microsoft or you also
pay for
you know
whatever
and what i learned
i think it was one of those things you
kind of have to come in as an outsider
and really like
you know have what like beginner brain
to something because the reason why
people were buying us
was complete it was like slightly
different
they were buying us because we made it
easy to share content outside of dropbox
and what was unique about that is you
know dropbox like the original reason
why people use us
was you have an iphone and you have a pc
and you want to like access all your
files between those two
well now it like kind of had shifted
well i have a pc and i'm sharing a file
with you and my client is on a mac
and i want to make sure they can
actually open it
so somewhere along the way
our value proposition had completely
shifted
but we had kind of like growth hacked
our way
from
you know like dropbox was the fastest
company to go from zero to a billion
dollars
you're not the fastest company to go
from a billion to two billion dollars
but
what was interesting about it is
you know is like kind of a
straightforward path to a billion but a
billion to two billion was not
straightforward we tried to go to
mid-market with the sales assist motion
we tried to go to enterprise with a
sales led motion
we tried to add a new company we bought
hello sign
but really ultimately people are you
know our value prop had evolved not
completely changed
and so this year one of the things that
we've really been focusing on um
you know our website doesn't say it just
works but internally that's kind of like
our motto like it just better work
and
we really focus on how do we really just
start to
improve our funnel health
and
really kind of go back to the basics
improve retention
pull out some of the growth hacks it's
really hard to pull out growth hacks
once you put them in
um
and
just
i call it giving before you get really
focusing on that basic first user
experience
so
as you start to like come into a new
company
think about where they are in their
trajectory
and really try to put on that beginner
brand or even with yourself like why are
your customers using you
what has changed in the market and how
do you continue to lean into that uh you
know that change so evolve towards value
from virality
and finally
so
we found our next wave to ride
and it wasn't the easiest thing when i
started it wasn't obvious
but what's unique about dropbox
is that
you know maybe this is not unique about
dropbox but i think during covid
everything changed and including our
most engaged users workflows so our most
engaged users are solo creatives
freelancers
creative teams people using big files
right they're using
big videos and you know it's like the
chain smokers sharing
uh
you know sharing content or whatever so
what's unique about dropbox is we have
all these amazing creators on our
platform
and we're in this just completely
different environment now
where
we've
are able to actually tie together
workflows simplify things but the other
thing that's unique is we're in this era
transitioning from the file to the cloud
and we believe is the next error for
dropbox is one organized place for all
of your content
so the last thing i'll leave you with is
if you're building for everybody
sometimes you end up building for nobody
so make sure you understand who your
best users are at scale
so
last three kind of wrap up here
make sure that you understand
how your product lead motion is evolving
you're kind of paying attention to those
transitions because those transition
points are where the opportunity sits
make sure you don't try to box product
led anything into anywhere
and then finally
figure out
how to marry your sales motion with your
product led motion
so that you can survive thrive and
evolve
like the turtles thank you so much
[Applause]
[Music]
you